. Thank you. Hello. Hello. How's everyone doing today? Good. How are you? I'm doing well. There's a bit of an echo. I want to make sure it's not on my end, so I'm just going to close a few additional tabs, if you don't mind. No problem. You sound great. Okay. That's what it's worth. So, yeah. Thank you. Thank you. Okay. We are good to go. Awesome. All good? No more echo? No more echo. I think we're okay. Okay. Cool. Great. Well, nice to meet you and thank you for applying. with the Research Archives and Data Strategy Team. And these are my colleagues, Nicolette Kahn, also with the Research Archives and Data Strategy Team, and Krivi Singh with the AI Labs Team. We have just about 30 minutes together today, and we'll be asking you six questions, and we hope to leave time for any questions you might have at the end. Okay. Yeah, I'll kick things off if everyone feels good to get started. All right. What are you... Did you hear me? Okay, I can hear you now. Oh, okay, sorry. What are you most excited to learn if you join these teams? I'm most excited about working with historical data. Currently, my research, my PhD focuses around multimodal data and multimodal archival data, essentially really focusing on fugitive archives. And so a lot of the work that I do has to deal with wrangling and making sense of really, really messy data and in a way that is not purely, I think, computational, but in a way that actually speaks to our ability to comprehend as human beings. And so looking at the various ways that data often is intermingled to gain a better insight or an emergent insight on what already exists. And so, yeah, really excited to figure out how to best present that and make it useful for reporters, archivists and memory workers. So a lot of time we work a lot in memory space. So I'm really excited to figure out how to make that really applied so that other people can leverage this form of search. Thank you. Can you tell us about a time that you were assigned a task with very vague instructions? How did you go about what to do? Yeah. So for an opportunity where I was given vague instructions, one of my processes, so my last position at the Ethos Lab, it was an ed tech research company in Vancouver. and I was tasked to create their first go-to-market product. So they are an after-school program and so I was told to help create a product that can be integrated into Vancouver schools. So Vancouver is very large, has about 96 schools in the district of Vancouver and neighboring districts and so I went to work with the teachers and did a kind of like a pilot in three different educational schools, worked with the teachers, found out that creating an in-school product might not be feasible, but maybe in a semi-quasi-STEM product. So they focused on STEAM, which is science, technology, engineering, arts, and math, and working with science after-school programs to create an in-school integration. And so through doing that, piloting, having a few successful pilots, we were able to work with stakeholders to not create more workload on the teachers and actually integrate some high quality emergent technology such as stable diffusion metaverse for students in school looking to tell stories. Well, thank you. Okay, you've touched on this a little bit already, but can you describe your background or familiarity with archives and have you ever worked with an archive or used them in research? Yes. So I got my start in archival work as a student at UCLA, working in the Ralph J. Bunch African American Archival Library. And a lot of my work currently focuses on archival research. And I came to that work through a discovery that I had a family member who was lynched in 1937, one of the last men lynched in Alabama. I used the newspaper archives to surface this, as well as I interviewed one of my first cousins, who was also interviewed maybe two months prior as I stumbled across this information. And a lot of her work was presented in the new Peace and Justice Memorial, which I visited. And so through a practice, which I call Traversing Spaces, I utilized the archives as a living institution for helping surface fugitive memories. And so constantly working with archives and archival databases. Thank you. That is very, very cool. And I want to ask you a million questions about that project, but I will stay focused. So next question is, what do you see as some of the biggest, sorry, excuse me, what do you see as some of the biggest ethical challenges that AI brings to journalism? Well in my research understanding the exacerbation and disproportionate impacts that we already have when it comes to race relations education and economic yes and economics in general These gaps are only exacerbated when you add AI that has embedded bias on top as a layer of inference or a layer of filtering. We see that now it's being used in admission processes, evaluation processes, and we can keep it simple, too. I just recently ran a comprehensive study on two flagship models, a Chinese model and OpenAI, to see how names, if categorized as white or black, would therefore get a different answer regarding getting hired for the same role. And we're seeing that, as we know, that the data already shows that there is a gap in that area. And so when you add the layer of AI on top of it, it only exacerbates the issue. So regarding ethics and AI, my whole approach to it is how do we not reproduce harms that we already know exist? Sorry, if you see us going quiet, we're just writing down our notes. No problem. I'm curious, you've talked about this a little bit already about not reproducing harms and as GeoDII is a technology that inherently changes text, it hallucinates. How do you think about the preservation of archival records, both technically and ethically? So the preservation of archival records, both technically and ethically, kind of take shape, not necessarily in silos, but they are an intersection. And so technically, through tagging with metadata, you know, really understanding the provenance of the data is one aspect of ensuring that it can be preserved. Another way, shape, and form in which it can be preserved is through an ethical means is really defining what the ethics are before we begin running simulations. simulations. I can give you an example. So we recently ran a study on the flooding of grave sites and how this could be possibly information that others could benefit from, but ethically, because it has to deal with the lives lost of people's family members, their sense of belongings that are tied to these particular spaces. You can't be first to market or say, oh, this is breaking news. We want to rush this information out. And so having data sensitivity and understanding who's connected to these forms of data makes you not want to feed the beast and really, really decide how not only do you get the information out there, but how do we do it in a way that we can leverage technology to not just engage with the information, but truly change our perception and understanding of the data, whether it be technical and or related to people and persons. Thank you. And can you walk me through your decision making for choosing between a proprietary API like OpenAI? You mentioned you did a comprehensive study with a Chinese model at OpenAI, so I'm curious with your decision making with proprietary APIs versus self-hosting an open source model, such as Lama 3, or using a traditional non-generative ML approach for your projects. Yes. So I'm pretty much, I would say, at this point, I am tool agnostic. So whether it be an open source tool or via flagship model, I think that we all have the necessity to engage and to understand how these technologies work. In the same sense, I run a lot of local models on my own machine. I run my own harnesses, eval harnesses, as well as local harnesses where I can both test open source models, compare outcomes all within my local machine. But every now and then there comes a time where you need some sort of reasoning that is very high quality or you need something that has access to real time information. As we know, lesser models or the earlier models have data that is cut off at a certain point in time. And so, yeah, sometimes you want to be able to ensure that the model can get the task done while also not essentially outing your sources. And so, especially in the journalism case point, there always comes a time where leveraging an open source model like Nemotron or Ornith, where you can also, like I said, audit yourself and grow in a process. I think that really gives you a lot more access and a lot more power not to be at the behest of these flagship companies that can change the model at any point in time. Great. Thank you. So those were all our questions. I'll open it up to you if you have any questions for us. Yes, I do. I have a few questions. The first question is actually for you, Christy. And so while as in working in the AI labs, how do you guys currently evaluate the prototypes that you guys are putting out to therefore either share with other reporters, other archivists or users. So how do you go about ensuring that the evaluation of that prototype meets you guys' editorial standards? Yeah, thank you for that. There's two ways, and one of these, my colleague product managers, Theresa Mangia, works on evaluations quite a bit. That's her big experience. for one of our big projects with the editorial team, she used LLM as a judge to get to evaluations, and that was really her domain. I really think of it as I really care about auditability and making sure that I am getting the responses. I'm hitting off my entire corpus of data in that sense, and I'll give you an example. So I built an Epstein files tool to really quickly go through the corpus of Epstein files and I really did not want to approach it with a chatbot interface where there was a completely black box situation. I don't really know whether it's accessing the whole corpus, whether my natural language question or query that I put in the chatbot, whether it generates the right script to find out whatever I'm asking. So I really was very adamant on that and I wanted to create a system where I could write SQL queries to access that data. So I extracted for JSON from these documents and converted that into a SQLite database and then and that meant that I could write SQL queries, and I knew that it was a SQL query. I know exactly what it should surface, and I was able to do that. Now, the problem with that design is not every journalist will know how to write a SQL query. So I still figuring that out but to answer your question it was very much in the design of the tool that I knew that I was accessing the correct data versus keeping that at a later stage where I was still evaluating what the Siebel query was searching Absolutely wonderful. Yeah, absolutely. You know, regular people are not going to use query language such as SQL, so I really do appreciate that detailed understanding. because it shows how you work with the language and with the computer, which is different for everyone. Awesome. Thank you so much. Nicolette, I did have a question for you as well. And it was simply around human in the loop and archival ML. And how are you guys focused around creating these controlled vocabularies for making sure that you can also not only surface the information you're looking for, but at what point does the decision making happen that keeps humans in charge and in control of the corpus of data? yeah so um we have a taxonomist on our team uh sarah knight and we've had a taxon and this was there was sarah sarah was the first taxonomist right yes yeah um she began i think a little bit before us a decade ago yeah and yeah it's evolved a little bit over time um it started out as i think like kind of a mixture of a few different taxonomies that were existent um in other uh organizations um but she she has been maintaining that and it currently is a flat taxonomy what we want to build something that's a little maybe more connected to a language model but right now it's just a flat taxonomy and so particularly just the way that our software will suggest terms for a story or something like that is a little old school but also we because we've worked with our taxonomy and content for so long we're also familiar with a lot of those terms so a lot of it is just like our understanding of those terms and how we want to describe the story and so there is still a lot of human involvement in that and I think that's going to be maybe hard for us to let go of if we you know eventually replace it with just tagging based off of a language model or something like that but um yeah for it's a big part of what our team does is cataloging those stories and um yeah i think obviously there's a lot of improvement for using those terms that we you know tag with better or um you know complementing our work and um making things more flexible but yeah that's what we've been doing for well actually since 1971 um there were there was a different kind of way to talk stories but yeah we've been cataloging our stories since npr was an organization absolutely wonderful um and a final question is for greta um thinking about uh metadata metadata and ai choices um what tools have you been seeing that are actually increasing the the accuracy of new sources that are coming back and like how like what is your data set prep look like um in your role This might be a little repetitive, Nicolette's answer, because the data sets I'm mostly using for my role would be like from our archive, which is called Artemis, it's like the digital interface for accessing those records. So we have a combination of different types of metadata already existing there. There's the ones we apply, there's also some that come in from other products in-house. And I think I haven't really been using any of the newer AI tools for this work. I know we've been using OpenRefine a little bit, which is not going to be using AI that much, but it's a favorite. But yeah, I mean, Nicolette's talking about the taxonomy. We do have multiple taxonomies. There's the subject taxonomy and then people taxonomies. taxonomies and um yeah so i think my biggest interface with with like using any kind of like ai would be the the software that we're using for the subject taxonomy suggestions um yeah and and but like as far as data sets go we get requests for reports especially from development um and like member partnerships of looking for like a large set of stories like thousands of stories trying to look across like what what patterns are there or like how many stories were there from a certain desk at a certain time and so working across the different time periods of like how that metadata came into our records is um yeah requires a lot of good documentation absolutely yeah and i think that that maybe speaks to one of my final questions which is open to anyone, I guess. What are the current barriers and blockers I guess regarding the current companies and access to APIs and models that you guys are seeing happen not only within your industry but within NPR, like the culture itself? And what tools would interns therefore have access to to therefore solve their problems? Like is there anything that's off limits? That is a great question. I feel like you have the best answer having been a recent intern and working with the tools the most. Yeah. So I think part of your question was what are the current barriers when it comes to accessing tools? I just want to make sure I get it right. Yeah. What is the current culture around accessing tools, open source or flagship model regarding the top companies or Chinese companies? on just trying to understanding what are the scary aspects, what are the edges that we need to be aware of. Yeah, great question. And very relevant to what I've been working on for the past couple of months. I just created an AI intake form for tackling this question where especially a lot of people from the RAT team are really interested in open source models. But we get all of these ad hoc requests, and it's been a bit of a challenge to make sure that they were all going into this streamlined space that we could take a look at and gather understanding of what people are interested in. So as a list I can think of, we have Gemini. Gemini is given to everyone who wants to opt in. We don't ask anyone to use it, but if they want to opt in, that's great. We have trainees for that. There a small subset of people who have access to Claude and it mostly really comes down to pricing that we negotiate with these companies People have access to CodePilot we still reviewing that process especially because CodePilot went to consumption based pricing which really increased our costs or could increase our costs which is a concern and that those processes are usually undertaken by our IT security team. When it comes to Chinese models, we have not currently approved those, such as QAN, DeepSeq, GLM, because of a concern of Chinese, I don't know, Chinese governments, like getting into our computers. I don't personally share that same worry, but currently those are not approved. I believe we're in the process of approving GEMMA, the GEMMA family of models. LAMA, I believe, has approved the GPT OSS models. So really it's just the intake form at the moment where people will, I have a list of models that people can check off that they're interested in using, and then we go through it on a case-by-case basis because it's a whole process. I think that's a big barrier when it comes to keeping these projects on time or getting these projects activated correctly on time because when someone mentions interest in a tool that hasn't been approved already, we have to make it go legal and get our vendor agreements done. And none of that is in our hands. That's a totally separate process, an isolated process. And then it goes through a security process where they do a risk review of how they retain our data, how long they retain our data, if at all, that sort of thing. I do think there's, especially within the developers and the people who are doing a lot of software development and RAD, I see a lot of interest in open source models, especially because you don't have to pay for that and lives locally. And like you said, you don't want to out your sources, essentially, and you can never really tell that with these frontier models. and what tools would interns have access to. What I mentioned, you probably have access to, and you can, again, ask what you want to have access to. We're always open and looking for models and AI tools that would be good for us. I can think of, I asked for Figma, which is really only given to designers at NPR. We have AI enabled in a lot of tools. like in Nero, we're in the process of enabling AI in our video production tools like Descript and Riverside. Those are all that I can think of. You mentioned about the culture and the scary edges. I can speak more broadly to the culture in the newsroom. I think there's more of a fear or apprehension around the use cases so maybe less about the technology specifics of like what models being used or what tools being used and more just generally about what will be audience facing and how much is going to be encroaching on work that people do yeah so some examples i think um would be like headline generations i think it's been a topic of conversation um and then yeah anything kind of coming from that like generating a teaser that appears on the website versus something that's like generated internally um to just like yeah to do that and the generation of transcripts is something that's more like nicolette and i work a lot with the transcripts and it's like that's we've already been using some tools in like a preliminary process but then they're refined by people before it goes to an audience that kind of stuff so like a lot of conversations about that still happening and will continue to happen no absolutely yeah and one thing i'll add is we have two unions at NPR. So the AI Labs team is constantly in conversation with SAG-AFTRA, which is the union that represents any content production side of things. So we're very careful about that and always are in conversations with them and make sure we come to an agreement before starting any project. And like any project we do, it's not that we just have those conversations at the beginning, but we have weekly conversations with them with the SAG AI committee. I've never been in those meetings as when I was an intern, but my manager has always been in those meetings. So there's that aspect as well. Absolutely. I think you guys are definitely on the pulse of so many different things and the intersections in which I think we're all working. it is definitely worth, I think, not just having apprehension or fear, but really, I think, engaging in the space, which I think a lot of people are doing. So I really appreciate you guys' responses today. Yeah, thanks so much. It's really nice to meet you. And I know we're at that half hour we mentioned, but all of us have a couple extra minutes. If there's anything else you wanted to add that we didn't cover today, or if you have other questions, we can certainly stay, but otherwise this was a good conversation. Yeah, no, thank you. I just want to say thank you all for taking the time to meet with me today, and I really appreciate all of the work that you all are doing at NPR and AI Labs. And within this last month, as I'm wrapping up some of my dissertation work, I've been building my own research archive ops stack, and so it has to do with like a relay, so I have like some handoffs that happen between some local agents that happen on my machine, as well as a parallel research process using perplexity, fire crawl, last 30 days to surface recent and relevant information. And then it also gets processed and documented through a process that I've created all on my local machine. So using other tools such as agent memory and mempalace. But that's just a little bit of the stuff that I've been working on, just keeping tabs on the things I'm working on in various sections. So thank you so much. And hopefully I'll open source it pretty soon, but we'll see how it goes. Still making sure it works. Thank you. Yeah. Yeah. Thanks for sharing that. That's cool to hear about the different kind of productivity things you're doing. Yeah, we love open source. I hope you can do that. Absolutely. and thank you for sharing about your work it sounds really powerful definitely want to look into some of that absolutely we'll be publishing soon so i will share that and if you are interested in any publication i did recently publish um a piece with the triple a titled bama soil uh it deals with uh memory and spaces so uh yeah hopefully if you get a chance to check that out it's free uh for anyone who wants to read it thank you thank you so much Alrighty. Thank you for your time. Have a great day. Thanks, guys. As well. Bye-bye. Bye.
